# Day 11: 22nd November 2024
## Entry 1: 14:17
After a break to catch up on coursework and write my project outline, I am *back*. There is one word to describe today's task: **optimization**. Training takes far too long for my testing purposes; I need to find a way to speed things up so that I can make adjustments as I go and immediately see their effect, rather than waiting for 15 minutes between small code changes.

I will look into a variety of different methods for this, including trying to simplify the model, trying JIT compilation and possibly using PennyLane instead of Qiskit to see if it is any faster.

## Entry 2: 16:00
Had a breakthrough. On the `noiseless_simulation` branch of this repo I'm using qiskit's Statevector simulator rather than the Aer simulator to evolve the quantum circuits. Then to calculate fidelity I simply use qiskit's inbuilt `state_fidelity` function, which means I don't need a swap test. This means I can split the process into two: first I get the state for the first sentence qubit, and then I get the state for the second sentence qubit. This basically halves the number of qubits I have to post-select, which makes simulations much more efficient. Furthermore, because I am running an ideal simulation instead of a shot-based simulation, I only have to obtain 1 usable result to get a very good measure of state fidelity. The timings speak for themselves: previously it took around 304ms to perform a forward pass of one circuit. Now it takes only 14ms, a reduction of over 20x!

Of coarse, the eventual goal is to perform shot-based experiments, but this can wait until I have dialled in the hyperparameters of my model sufficiently. At this point I can switch over to the slower shot-based approach, as I won't be fiddling around so much with the model.

One problem: I now have to figure out a way of passing the sentences into the model as pairs without combining them into a single diagram. This is what I'll address now.